>> In a world first, scientists
develop a breakthrough
treatment which uses light
to kill cancer cells.
This is a Gaia News Breakdown.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We often think of light
as a life giving source.
In the case of
photoimmunotherapy,
the use of light to help a
person's own immune system
to fight cancer, light
can be both a source
of life for the patient,
and death to cancer cells.
While this type of
therapy isn't new,
researchers have
recently announced
they have developed a new
form of it, which many believe
will be adopted as the
fifth major class of cancer
treatment, and possibly
the only viable approach
for some of the most
aggressive types of cancer.
A multidisciplinary team
of European scientists
joined forces to design
the new treatment, which
works by combining a
special fluorescent dye
with a cancer-targeting
compound.
Shining light on the
compound forces cancer cells
to glow in the dark,
helping surgeons
to remove more of
the tumors compared
with existing techniques.
Then, the surgeon would
shine near-infrared light
on the site, switching the
compound into tumor killing
mode, and killing off any
remaining cancer cells.
A trial of this therapy
was done on mice
with a particularly aggressive
form of brain cancer called
glioblastoma.
Findings showed that the mice
had clear signs of tumor death
in as little as one hour
after exposure to the light.
And the treatment also
triggered an immune response
that could mount a new attack on
the cancer should it come back.
Study leader, Dr.
Gabriela Kramer-Marek
told "The Guardian,"
quote, "Brain cancers
like glioblastoma
can be hard to treat
and sadly, there are too few
treatment options for patients.
Surgery is challenging due to
the location of the tumors,
and so new ways
to see tumor cells
to be removed during surgery,
and to treat residual cancer
cells that remain afterwards
could be of great benefit."
Scientists are quite
hopeful that the results
will be duplicated when they
study the treatment on humans.
In the meantime, this
trial has shown a light
at the end of a
long, dark tunnel.
For new perspective, this has
been a Gaia News Breakdown.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.